# Data-Science-Project
Text Mining and Sentiment Analysis


TABLE OF CONTENTS

Topics: 									
1. Abstract 									
2. Introduction								
3. Project Requirements				
4. Objective and Working			
5. Conclusion								
6. Future Scope									
7. References								

Abstract:

Others’ opinions  have  always  been an  important  piece  of information  for  consumers  when  it’s  time  to  make  buying decision.
Long  before  awareness  of  the  World  Wide  Web became  widespread,  people  often  rely  on  their  friends’ recommendations  and  
specialized  magazines  or  websites  as the  main  sources  of  information.  But with the growth of the web over the last decade, 
the social media nowadays provides new tools to  efficiently  create  and  share  useful  information. This  made  it  possible  to 
find out about  experiences  and the  opinions  almost  everywhere  (blogs,  forums,  social networks,  news  portals,  and  content-
sharing  sites,  etc.). 
Researches  indicate  that  using  the  social  media  sites  is considered  as  the  best  way  to  grow  a  business  in  terms  
of money, time, effort and other resources.  Although  these  opinions  are  meant  to  be  helpful,  the massive  availability  of  
such  opinions  and  their  unstructured nature  make  it  difficult for companies  to  benefit  from them. To solve this issue, a 
number of techniques for  analysing data generated by users on social media sites have been developed. Sentiment analysis which is 
known as opinion  mining  is  one such  recent  techniques.  Sentiment analysis uses  natural language processing, text mining and 
computational linguistic to extract useful information and knowledge from source data. The purpose of sentiment analysis is to classify 
polarity from a source text into positive, neutral  and negative. Text mining is a  crucial  step  in  sentiment  analysis  where  
unstructured  data are  analysed  and  scored  based  on  how  much  it  relates  to  a specific  concept,  in  order  to  be  
classified  later  based  on  its given score. 

Introduction:

Text Mining (or Text Analytics) applies analytic tools to learn from collections of text data, like social media, books, newspapers,
emails, etc. The goal can be considered to be similar to humans learning by reading such material. However, using automated algorithms
we can learn from massive amounts of text, very much more than a human can. The material could consist of millions of newspaper articles
to perhaps summarize the main themes and to identify those that are of most interest to particular people. Or we might be monitoring 
twitter feeds to identify emerging topics that we might need to act upon, as it emerges.

                   
      		 
Majorly, we work on two aspects of Text Mining:

1.	Sentiment Mining: Here, we are more concerned about deciphering the sentiment of the author.
2.	Subject Extraction: Here, we wish to pull out the main subject of the chosen speech. This is done prior to sentiment mining.

Text Mining applications:-

•	Knowledge Discovery: Discovering a common customer complaint among much feedback.
•	Information Distillation: Filtering future comments into pre-defined categories
•	Analysis by entities(hashtags)
•	Automation(comments classification automation and sending report daily in vissual format)

Sentiment Analysis

Sentiment analysis is the detection of attitude of a speaker with respect to some topic or overall contextual polarity of a document 
From a set of types. It is simplest algorithm of all machine learning algorithms. It works based on words we used in sentence and 
context of the sentence. There are multiple libraries in R like tm, Rsentiment, Sentiment. Multiple methods to perform sentiment 
analysis. A subjective/objective system for determining sentiment is typically used one a form of documentation; specifically any 
sentence of interest in the document that can be determined to be either subjective or objective

Project Requirements: 
•	R 
•	R Studio
•	R Shiny

Working: 

•	Data Collection :- Few sources of text are Facebook, Twitter, Yahoo, Google, Blogs, Watsapp.

•	Text Mining :- Text Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery in Textual Database Process of extracting interesting and non-trivial 
                 information and knowledge from unstructured text.

o	Pre-processing- In order to obtain and consider only knowledgeable information from the given text we need to perform some text 
                   preprocessing techniques. 
                   
Text Preprocessing Steps:
	Remove Numbers
	Remove Punctuation Marks
	Case Folding (Converting uppercase letters to lower case)
	Remove stop words
	Stemming
	Lemmatization
	Strip white space
	Synonym check
	Remove metadata

o	Term-Document Matrix Building - A document term matrix is simply a matrix with documents as the rows and terms as the columns and 
                                  a count of the frequency of words as the cells of the matrix.  A collection of n documents can be 
                                  represented in the vector space model by a term-document matrix.

o	Word Cloud formation – It is a visual representation of text data, typically used to depict keyword metadata (tags) on websites, 
                         or to visualize free form text. Tags are usually single words, and the importance of each tag is shown with 
                         font size or color. More frequently used words appear larger in the word cloud.
                         
•	Sentiment Analysis :- Sentiment analysis is the detection of attitude of a speaker with respect to some topic or overall 
                        contextual polarity of a document. It’s also known as opinion mining, deriving the opinion or attitude of a 
                        speaker. A common use case for this technology is to discover how people feel about a particular topic.
Conclusions:

Sentiment analysis has even been used to help political strategists gauge public opinion on the Internet as this Yahoo News shows. 
The Obama administration has begun using sentiment analysis to predict responses to campaign messages and policy announcements. 
There are many examples of sentiment analysis being used in a variety of fields such as online retail, to all forms of blogging, and
even in politics. Consumer related businesses have become big users of sentiment analysis, and not just for customer product reviews. Sentiment analysis has begun to creep into business intelligence, customer service, and the management of brand reputation. 

FUTURE SCOPE

•	Collaborative learning will emerge.
The different computational entities collaborating to produce better learning results than they would have achieved on their own. 
This could be robots or it could be the nodes of an IoT sensor network, or what some would call edge analytics.

•	Reinforcement learning will gain widespread industry adoption.
So far, industry ML is mostly concerned with supervised learning, gaining insights from data. The adoption of intelligent agents will 
revolutionize many industries in the future.

•	Machine learning pipelines will have increased levels of automation.
There are many data scientists and machine learning engineers out there that have implemented very efficient pipelines to automate and abstract away low level implementation.However, the current tools are still sort of low level. And the ones that are not have taken away all control of what’s actually happening. As engineers, we need tools that are high-level, yet allow fine-grained algorithm control when needed.

REFRENCES

[1] Joel Larocca Neto, Alex A. Freitas Celso A. A. Kaestner, “Automatic Text Summarization using a Machine Learning Approach”, Pontifical Catholic University of Parana (PUCPR) Rua Imaculada Conceicao, , 1995
[2] G. O. Young, T. Machine Learning. McGraw-Hill ,1997
[3] Teufel, S.  Moens, M. ”Argumentative classification of extracted sentences as a first step towards flexible abstracting”. In Mani, I.; Maybury  M. (eds.). Advances in automatic text summarization. The MIT Press ,1999 
[4] Yaari, Y. “Segmentation of Expository Texts by Hierarchical Agglomerative Clustering”, Technical Report, Bar-Ilan University  Israel, 1997.
